# HealthCare-Data-Analytics-with-R
# Illinois State HealthCare Open source data on Leading Causes of Deaths from 1990-2010
* Major Objective: The aim of this report is to answer specific questions related to Leading Causes of Death in state of Illinois from Year 1990-2010 based on variables of year, age group, type of deaths and major organs affected by using Data Visualization skills in R language.
* Materials and Methods: Dataset was obtained from Illinois Center for Health Statistics, (https://data.illinois.gov/dataset/571leading_causes_of_death_19902010). The data contains 2135 rows with 4 columns, Year, Age Group, Leading Causes of Death and Fatalities. 
* Software: R is used as the choice of language to generate the visualizations. 
* Questions Answered from the data: Major questions that are answered in this study are: what are the top 5 leading causes of Deaths (with death counts) in Illinois from 1990-2010, what top 3 Years that most death occurred in, what age groups most deaths occurred and was there any trend or pattern associated with it, what major organ(s) was/were the cause of deaths and is there overall patterns seen among all variables throughout the 21 years period. Results: Based on the generated visualizations the top 5 leading causes of deaths (with death counts) in Illinois are Heart Disease, Diseases of Heart (these are different than Heart Disease), Malignant Neoplasms, Congenital anomalies and Cerebrovascular disease. Top 3 years that most death occurred were: 1999, 2000, and 2002 with in that major cause of Death was Heart Diseases. Among all age groups, ages 65 and older has highest mortality rate then ages 45-64 and ages 25-44. The obvious pattern was noted that higher the age groups there were more deaths occurred. Heart, Lungs, Brain and Congenital defects were major organ related deaths from 1990-2010. By referencing with Illinois Department of Public Health statistics, the findings matches with the published statistics from every ten years starting from 1990, 2000 and 2010. This confirmed that visualizations lead to correct conclusion. Overall, the heart diseases was among the top leading cause of death and over 21 years of period the numbers of deaths are declining throughout the years. For future study, using National Vital Statistics Report as a comparison, I could have used all 50 states mortality (leading cause of death) data and compare the causes among the states.
